After that, when everything started to recover and people had more or
less recovered and the stock exchanges began to recover from trillions of dollars started
of them,
Google network engineers said there were only five people in the world that were capable
to approve changes to your most critical code.
And each of these five had complete confidence.
July 4 In Western Europe, it's Friday afternoon, and office workers look
Your watches want to know if it's OK to come out sooner at work.
In the United States, they are about to start a three-day bridge for Independence Day.
At Google's headquarters in Monutain View, most of the building is empty, engineers
They are good at home, with the machines ready to vibrate if something goes wrong, or they are
Changing the way in data centers located around the world.
There is still a well-lit office, but hidden in a silent corner of the building. Inside
There is Maria Christensen, one of the most experienced engineers and one of the five in trust.
She is, against all corporate order, making a change to the core of the Google infrastructure code
Only one section has changed: and it is the first part of the Google login code
Apps. This should be an incredibly complicated function that generates more functions
to try to check passwords, double-factor authentication, third-party password checks, suspicious activity,
hackers, phreakers, fraudsters, and all kinds of disaster prevention.
She has only changed one line of code, which she has put on, and says ...
"return true;". (Result is true).
She skips all the warnings of the software that says that this will not work, which is dangerous,
This is broken, and it marks that it is immediately applied and updated.
So the Google system updates the code through its data centers. From coast to coast
In the United States, towards Doblí and Europe, in the Far East and low in South America.
It takes about three minutes. And what it means is this:
So much so that you find yourself as a Google password, it will be treated as correct. There are not
more proof of password. If you enter the username, enter.
And if that seems not possible, as something that could not happen, if it seems something that would not happen, remember
Dropbox, the file upload service used by 175 million people including, I'm pretty sure,
Most people in this room.
In 2011, they had exactly that security mistake for three hours. Now, fortunately, the person
who discovered it - who was not a Dropbox worker - told him responsibly
Instead of counting on the world, so the wrongdoing was limited.
Maria does not intend to responsibly tell anyone. Most engineers who
They would be notified of a change in code like this they are not available. And those that some have been
Between one and three minutes before Maria enters to start her session now
open Google accounts - forget about the email notification, it's about three minutes ago
to read, understand, and get to realize exactly what the change entails before Maria starts session
and remotely removes its Andorid mobile when reporting it as a stalemate.
None of the engineers can do it in time. The rest of the Google Trusted Five are still there
Sleeping while their phones silently erase themselves.
And Maria emails her manifesto to dozens of news sites, posts messages on a couple of high-traffic websites
and close session - which is ironic since closing session does not mean in fact
nothing else - enter your car, and you will take a flight.
As soon as the first journalist does a test satisfactorily, the news is like smoke. The first place a
Extending it all over the Internet was strangely the Drudge Report: and then they said it was because
They did not use Gmail and they really did not understand it, and they only got the story
more than immediately go to protect yourself.
Because that's what most people did. The following hours, people tended to fall
in one of these three groups:
First of all, the defenders. Desperately trying to block your accounts, desperately trying
to delete anything that can be incriminating, and stop your other accounts of being
committed
Because, remember, if you have access to someone else's mail, then you have access to each one of them
Web services they use - because they can request a password change directly to your inbox.
How good you are being a defender generally depends on how good you are getting all of them
You have other accounts away from that committed address.
Certainly, even fat people who did not use Gmail realized that
Other people who sent messages did.
Facebook was the first great web service to react, fast enough, so fast that most commentators
They suggest that they actually had a plan for it years ago. In a few minutes
of history development, Facebook not only disables reset of passwords but the capacity
to start session in general, assuming that most of the people had their accounts compromised,
so they just turn it off. And how almost everyone actually had already logged into their phone
and your computer, Facebook quickly became * the * trusted method to contact anyone
- And that there was a new level of confidence that remained after people watched cautiously
to the mail
At that time they were the amateur detectives. Those who suspected that their couple were cheating on them.
Those who were desperate to find what their peers earned, or
what did his master think of them really. It was not really restricted to mail, clearly,
If you have access to someone's Google account, in most cases you have access to your complete
Search history and all the websites you have visited. For years, and years, and years.
Did you disable it? Most of this room is not. It was described by a writer
like "looking at the soul of my wife". And the divorce rate had a considerable increase in some
months later.
Meanwhile, companies using Gmail, or companies working with companies that used Gmail, only
They had to assume that all their corporate secrets had been stolen: in the coming years,
Patent and copyright lawyers would make a huge amount of money according to the claims of one side
to the other between corpulions.
Now the European stock markets, the only ones open at that time on July 4, fell directly
Almost immediately, Asians and Americans would do the same thing when they opened
next Monday.
But the most obvious group, but the largest, would be the pyromaniac. Anyone who had any type of
A prominent presence on the Internet would have its destroyed account, completely destroyed, in ten minutes.
Any YouTube channel with any type of audience would find all their work eliminated and vandalized,
Even worse than the new system of comments made by YouTube. Some firemen attacked
Individual people, hoping to be able to eliminate everything as part of a revenge, but others ...
others just tried to destroy as much data as they could from as many people as
they could as quickly as they could.
Google, clearly, had backups. They reverted everything - but most third-party websites,
Vulnerable through password changes, they were not that lucky.
(laughs)
Each blog with more than a couple of readers has cruel messages, or code that redirects
to websites with shocking content, or just destroyed. A huge number did not have backups usable
This was the last blow of the majority of the forums, the old ones that have been
lowering use year after year. As soon as the account of the administrator falls,
the entire site was quickly destroyed. And not many of these recovered because no
many of them had backup copies.
Some made things in favor of "good". First of all, the huge amount of
Traffic - of people trying to fix and break things I would say that Google itself could not
Supported so much workload: a handful of people would end up frustrated by the slow loading times and servers falling.
But thirty minutes later, at least some of the Google network engineers have noticed what
It was happening and pulled out of the cable - in a physical case, literally stretching the cables of the
Data centers and unplugging everything they could. Someone could finally be able to get there
A shutdown command within the systems that Maria had engaged two hours ago.
After that, and three minutes later, Google falls on the Internet for the first time in
very, a long time.
Between these two hours of riot, of pandemonium, there were the people that Maria Christensen wanted
actually arrive She was waiting to be next to Chelsea Manning, next Julian
Assange, the next Edward Snowden. More than that: she is waiting to create hundreds,
Thousands, millions of people taking this filtering role, through the brief hours of "freedom" that she
I had created to change the world to the best. That was his manifesto:
He left Find the things that need to be filtered, find the archives of the corporations and
Governments that are destroying our world, and teach them in the light of day.
His point of view was unfortunately optimistic. And yes, some people did it. There were thousands of leaks,
Some of international importance: a few reminded the Obama transition team, then
of the 2008 elections, they used Gmail until they could have their official addresses at whitehouse.gov
And they had stories of millionaire executives talking about stories of clandestine workshops
and burying them; stories of mining companies exploiting workers and exposing them to a danger
incredible story after history of people putting aside human considerations and - this phrase
It is widely used - acting towards the best interests of shareholders.
But none of these stories came to the news.
Because what Maria Christensen did not do was control the story. Wikileaks and their allies
They always did: they repeated the stories for months in a cycle of 24h that always
wanted more, more, more, but in reality ...
In this case, however, the story was about the process, not about the information.
The angle that all the news they took was that the email was suddenly unsafe, that you were at risk,
You should defend yourself against it and that's how it is done, that websites are
being damaged, and that's how you protect yourself, and look at us because we will help you.
So there was no tremendous revelation printed on the main pages. They should have been,
There are endless numbers of covers, but there were simply too many stories, and
all of them were much less interesting to the public than the question of yours
company has watched your search history.
And clearly, for most people, there was no long-term damage, at least not to them
personally Statistically speaking, you could fix it. Of course, everyone knew
someone who had been affected, everyone knew who would get into trouble, but the odds
They are you, yourself, you have proved unharmed. And while a lot of high level companies
They suffered little, there was no time for the world to change. If you throw innumerable gallons of oil
Inside the Gulf could not kill BP: what could? So most small businesses survive unhealthy
and the economy recovered little by little, having been damaged by no more than any natural disaster.
And Gmail, a year later, had almost as many active users as before. Because, after all,
What were the chances that this would happen again? And it is not as if the government
I can not read your messages anyway. And nobody really was damaged in the long term, and maybe
It was better than me and she broke, you know? Everything works at the end. Besides
in addition, it would be a real problem trying to change my email account to another site.
I would have to change my address!
It's amazing how we trust single point mistakes. And while this is a scenario
worst case - quite frankly - everyone here would have an axis where everything,
At least in your online life, hang on a thread.
The email account that you forgot access had access to everything. Or that password your ex
you still know
But my argument is: even when the disaster happens, when the world falls
around you, remember that this eventually, this should also happen. Because more is needed
that a single point mistake to change the world-
Oh, and what was Maria Christiensen? She was arrested at the airport after her flight
It was delayed ... because the airline worked with Google Apps.
Thanks to all, I am Tom Scott, enjoy the rest of the show.
Translated by Marcos Salomón (@enrospv)